---
layout: post
title: 25 books in 25 years
---

As I complete a quarter century of revolutions around the sun, I thought I'd list down the top 25 books which have most changed me, my habits, my political opinions, or just simply left me mersmerised by the story. I cover all genres - excluding romance, and maybe philosophy - I'm still a novice in these genres. List in descending order, the latter ones are more imp to me. 

I'll also summarize a bit, but keep it limited. If you're too lazy to read the summaries - maybe use this as a recommendation engine.

Again - My opinions, and some controversial takes possible. Some books are honestly not very good, but I read them at an early enough age that they take precedence over classics. But here we go: 

### Special Mentions : 
1. Masala Lab - Krish Ashok : A book on the science of indian cuisine
2. Pathless Path - Paul Millerd : A book on how you should rethink careers, and jobs in general

### 25 Gem In the lotus - Abraham Eraly

This is a book which picks up Indian history, starting from the first time Indians were seen in India. Breaks a lot of stories which elders tell as about the greatness of India of old. OUR generation is the greatest Indian generation on the basis of the well being of people. Its long, its historic and eye opening.

### 24 Factfullness - Hans Rosling

The late Hans Rosling explains why the world we are taught in school is actualy based on data from the 1990s, and the world has changed quite a bit - significantly for the better. You cannot change if you cannot measure, and measurement won't work if your data is not latest. A book for policymakers.

### 23 Outliers - Malcolm Gladwell

Enough people have written about this, skipping this.

### 22 Kane and Abel - Jeffrey Archer

My all time fav archer. A story passing through 2 generations, and about 50 years. Takes into account all important historical events, and keeps you engrossed. Think Forrest Gump, but better.

### 21 If tomorrow comes - Sydney Sheldon

A story travelling 100 years of a person's life, the power struggles, business, betrayal and money. My all time fav sydney sheldon.

### 20 Young Samurai - Chris Bradford

All 8 books. Arguably, the most criminally underrated fantasy book series of all time. Made me fall in love with Japanese culture, and samurai's in general. Excellent givt idea

### 19 No rules rules - Reed Hastings

The story of netflix, and of the best corporate culture in existence. You learn so much about how if you hire the best people, you can trust them to do the right things. Best corporate book I've ever read.

### 18 Inkheart - Cornelia Funke

It's the first book of the trilogy, and I think the second and third are not the best. The first one got adapted to a movie as well. Talks about a different type of magic, and the story is really strong. Peak single fantasy book.

### 17 Shoe Dog - Phil Knight

My fav auto-biography of all time. Nothing else needed to be said.

### 16 Meluha/Rama Chandra series

I think Meluha remains underrated as a series. The ending was a bit disappointing, but Dan Brown-esque rendition of India is a must read. The third book of the Ram series - Raavan, for me remains the greatest book by an Indian fiction writer I've read. Its complex, its a villain story, and you really fall in love with Raavan far more than you do with Ram.

### 15 Angels and Demons - Dan Brown

Gonna get some hate for this - but lets be honest everyone loved this. If you want to get into reading, this is the book I would throw at you. 

### 14 Da Vinci Code - Dan Brown

My first Dan brown, and my fav. You learn so much about art, about christianity and Europe in general. I carried this book with me when I visited Paris, and being able to go the actual spots of the book is an experience.

### 13 Man's Search for meaning - Viktor Frankl

Logotherapy, and Nazi Germany. You start liking your life more when you read this. Book about hope. Must read I think for everyone.

### 12 Kite Runner - Khaled Hosseini

The first book which got me shed tears. Its sad, its beautifully constructed, and you feel the plight of Afghanistan.

### 11 Freakonomics

Enough has been said about this book. Must read for data freaks.

### 10 Elon Musk - Ashlee Vance

Walter Isaacson might have swooped Vance with a more latest book, but this one is maybe better constructed. Elon is no scam, and anyone who says so is probably in denial. He's also not likeable, but you gotta admit he's a crazy hardworking guy. This book makes you feel the pain of rocket launches and factory meltdowns.

### 9 Stormlight Archive - Brandon Sanderson

Of all the books in this list, if I were to choose the series which would go down in history as the next Lord of the Rings / Harry Potter, it would be this one. The Way Of Kings is an absolute masterpiece (and although I didn't like Words of Radiance - Book 2 a lot), the third (Oathbringer) made up for it. 

Its EPIC fantasy, with a large universe. You are going to see this blow up in the future via movies and TV shows. Each book is probably 1000 pages, so beware.

### 8 Alex Rider - Anthony Horowitz

Teenage Spy is a cliche topic, but this series is well executed. Its James Bond with cool gadgets, cooler missions and a much loved hero. Also - the ending is just heartbreaking.

### 7 Mistborn - Brandon Sanderson

I rank this over Stormlight mostly because stormlight still has 6 books yet to release. If you want to start reading epic fantasy, this is what i would start with. Great gift material as well.

### 6 The Innovators - Walter Isaacsson

Story of silicon valley. You learn why Apply, Microsoft, Intel were created in California and not elsewhere. Its a great tale of how innovation happens, and why you need to be crazy enough to try.

### 5 Project Hail Mary - Andy Weir

The second and last book ever to make me cry. Wiedly, this is also the book I've laughed the most. Peak Sci-fi, filled with physics.

### 4 Bartemaous Trilogy - Jonathan Stroud

Unknown, underrated, and a masterpiece on how to write fantasy and magic systems. Its about how people connect to ghosts, and how even the scariest things can be funny. One of the favourite book series of all time growing up. 

### 3 Steve Jobs - Walter Isaacson

My all time favourite biography I think. Enough said about this book by other people. The book that made Walter Isaacsson's career.

### 2 Think Again - Adam Grant

I don't think I'd call this book self help -  but the idea is so great. You should change your mind more often, and it helps. Adam grant is a great writer, and you love the process of reading this book. Must read.
### 1 Inheritance Trilogy (Eragon, Eldest, Brisingr, Inheritance)

The first really long fantasy series I finished. Dragon riders, classy sword fight scenes and a war between classes. This has everything which a fantasy series needs, and is linear enough that you don't get bored. Legendary.